this afternoon the air in the cattle
barn is full of the hum of fans and the
buzz of clippers as for a cheers from
around the state of Iowa prepare their
market animals for the 4-h grand
champion market steer show there are 366
entries in 30 different categories
competing for the big prize let's take a
look
I'm here with Jack Ward who's judging
the market steer and market heifer
competitions today Jack when you're out
there in the show ring what are you
looking for in the cattle well as you
you just mentioned you know it is a
market show and so we have to be
concerned
first and foremost with the marketable
traits they've got to have some muscle
some finish so that we can be expecting
them to great choice or better but it
also is a show and so I like for them to
be sound and correct and have a good
look to them and so it's a combination
of all those traits together now for the
folks that aren't familiar with cattle
terminology when you're talking sound
and straight what are you what are you
looking for sure well the soundness is
associated with their feet and legs that
means that they can move their legs
structure all goes in the right
direction and they move well and then
the straightness and the correct this is
just their overall pattern do they have
some style and balance do they hold
their head up and have some presence to
them and so it's a it's a combination of
those things
I'm going to be the backbone of what we
have in the future
standing with me right now is Hagin
foutch and the 4-h grand champion market
steer doozy Hagen what did you feel when
the judge looked over at Jim started
walking your way it was crazy feeling I
never thought I'd happen like to me like
I dreamed of this all time and I finally
have to finally I mean does it feel like
you dreamed it would feel yeah well even
better
have you been showing cattle for a while
yep since fourth grade since fourth
grade have you been at the state fair
before yup I showed since 6:00 or so
it's great I think so and was this your
first time as a clash champion yes the
first time I've ever been the final
drive or anything I've always wanted to
get the final drive but that this
happens crazy now was your chance well
tell us a little bit about dou Z dou Z
is a Charolais steer he's half surly
half bug cap and he's 1335 pounds and
he's white I guess it's he's white and
he's wide he's very wise he's a very
wide calf was talking to a cattle buyer
back there who said that he's just
tremendously shaped are you gonna be a
senior in high school yes do you have
any plans for the future
I'm gonna go some school an egg I'm not
sure which school or
what the plan is today in agriculture it
do you have an interest on the livestock
side yeah my dad has real crop so I'm
kind of both so multi-talented you
tearing up oh yeah